So we also had some questions
before about inheritance,
I think, and
you can inherit from another class using
the extends keyword in
the class declaration.
So, for example, I can make a special
version of a meme which is a GifMeme,
obviously superior to a non-animated,
non-disturbing for
folks with motion sensitivity image,
right?
No, we can't have that we need
flashing lights at all times.
[LAUGH] And
what we need to do if we want to extend
a class is call,
in our constructor method,
call the constructor of the parent class.
So in this case,
within the GifMeme constructor,
on the last line of that
constructor function
we are calling this
special function super.
Which has its own
specialness in JavaScript,
that calls the constructor
method on the parent class.
And we have to do that if
we're extending a class.
We have to do that before
we get access to this.
So if we're extending classes,
we have to first of all call that super.
Okay, but Anjana you said you
have to first call the super so
why is there code before the super?
Well, because we can do things in
an extended class like we can,
for example, in this case,
make sure that you are passing in
a correct Gif file for this new meme.
And if not, refuse to instantiate
the object, and then call super.
And then we can go on after this line
that calls super, we can access this,
do whatever, set up new properties, have
whatever fanciness we need in our GifMeme.
So, for example, if I try to instantiate
a GifMeme with pooh.jpg, can't do it.
That's a failed pooh [LAUGH].
And so, if we have a GifMeme with a .gif,
okay, it passes that first check.
And it gets to the parent constructor
which remember had that little whisper
with the secret images console log.
And so that's being called we can
see that because we didn't write any
console login code in
our GifMeme constructor.
So we've got now a way to access any
of the properties on the parent class,
any of the methods and whatnot,
unless we override them.
In which case we'll get the more
specific version from the GifMeme class.
If I wanted to make a new
secret image getter or
something that let's say makes
sure that if you set the image.
You're Setting the right, sorry, you're
setting the right type of file that you
can't just set the image to a .jpeg,
for example.
Yeah.
>> Do you need to
override the constructor?
>> If you don't make one,
will it just use the super constructor?
>> If you don't, let's find out.
I think I understand what you're asking.
Okay, let's see.
When in doubt, sorry
>> My understanding is you always have to
call super in a constructor.
>> I think it's not gonna be happy but
there's only one way to find out and
that's to make JavaScript do
stuff it doesn't wanna do.
So let's find out, okay?
So if I do a class GifMeme extends meme.
Well, I don't have a meme, okay?
[LAUGH] Class meme we're
just gonna this is
just gonna be a very
simple this.meme is yes.
Okay, oops, what did I do?
I called that that's not how it works.
I always do this for some reason I'm to
use two functions as you can tell I'm not
a big class-er, I'm not classy.
Okay, so we don't need those parens.
Okay, great.
So now I can do, let's just
make sure, I can make a new meme.
Okay, m.meme.
Yes, okay great.
[LAUGH] Such a useful object we have okay.
Now if we try to do a class
GifMeme extends Meme.
And so if I understand correctly you're
saying just like with nothing happening.
Interesting, okay, now let's try
a GifMeme All right,
well, JavaScript doesn't care so
that's a little surprising.
And again, I find a lot of stuff about
the way this object orientation works in
JavaScript sometimes surprising.
Well, it's hard to know what magic
JavaScript is gonna do under the hood,
where it's going to be strict about stuff,
like no hash property for
you or
where it's just gonna be like, okay.
You wanna empty a completely
identical object to the parent?
Sure, knock yourself out.
I think what this is
tantamount to is essentially
assigning an alias to
the name of the class.
So perhaps that might be useful if for
example,
you're trying to support an older name for
the class or something like that.
But you don't want to have to maintain
two separate ones or anything like that.
So today we learned.
Amazing question, sorry
>> Yeah what if you wanted to
just like override one of the methods?
>> What if you wanted to override?
>> Would that be a use case for extending
this without redoing your constructor?
Let's say you want on your GifMeme you
want to actually override what the image
>> Right, so for example, we could do
like a class PngMeme that extends Meme and
maybe has a like a method that,
okay, let's go back.
What did it mean, sorry.
>> Like the .yell
>> Yeah, yell okay.
Right, exactly so let's say we have
a new yell method that, whoa, okay.
That gives us
a Very helpful yell, okay.
[LAUGH] All right let's
see what we get here.
So now if I do a new
PngMeme with no data,
It has worked so what have you learnt?
>> No.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Just out of curiosity,
if you do a pm.meme,
you should get yes, right?
Okay, can you scroll back to where
you defined the mean classic?
Again just let me look at that again.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> So just .meme, I got it all right.
>> Yeah and so this is where
>> So meme is yeah, right.
That's a attribute as opposed to
>> Right.
>> Object or a method.
>> Yes, so
essentially everything's a property.
We got the JavaScript world where
basically JavaScript only sees,
it's like it has object colored glasses
on that sees everything as an object and
it sees every dot value as a property.
If the value of that property is
a function then we call it a method.
But that's,
about the end of the difference.
And so when we are, when we have public
properties and methods like .meme,
.yell like I said before we
don't have to like declare them
right here before the constructor but
those private ones we do.
Was there another question?.
Okay.
So yes so okay, what are we learning?
We are learning again that there
are now these like facilities,
these these keywords class, extend, super,
etc that help us do this kind of object
oriented programming in JavaScript.
And also we should keep in mind
that these are built on top
of the underlying prototypal
inheritance model.
That has not gone away.
And there's a lot more
to say about classes,
which again, MDN
>> Is our friend.
>> Yay, okay yes.
MDN is our friend [LAUGH] just
making sure everybody's awake.
The things that you can
kind of mess with with
classes are hopefully kind of limited now.
They did think long and
hard about how to do this and
how to implement stuff like that.
Private methods and
private properties and things so
there is a little bit more,
what's the word?
Rigidity than our usual JavaScript
functions, for example.
But that said, sometimes you might
find discrepancies if you're used to,
again, these constructs and
these concepts from another language.
So again, just keep in mind under the
hood, it's all objects with prototypes.
And it's functions creating
objects with prototypes and
setting that all up for you.
And that's essentially,
this is essentially a nice kind of,
hopefully more dev friendly
interface on top of that.